so you're writing a text message and you
want to highlight some important details
in bold
but it seems like you haven't been able
to do that well ever
and there's a reason why sms stands for
short message service
which serves as the courier for sending
out your little digital messages
but it doesn't let you do any rich text
formatting like you can with many of
your apps
instead there's a restricted alphabet
available for sending out texts
let's say you want to highlight a word
in bold you need to send
a signal that the text should be
formatted in this way
one way to do it is with html you can
use the appropriate code like this
and you're done but that means wasting
seven characters to emphasize just one
word
if you want to add underlying words in
italics you'll have to use even more
characters
and that's without typing a single
letter of the word
and sms limits the number of characters
you can use
the problem is that sms doesn't
acknowledge this modified text either
and it seems like a lot of work to go
through when you can just use capital
letters to make your point
sometimes when we receive promotional
messages some letters are italicized
underlined or in bold this is because
companies use different services to do
that
another strange thing about phones
sometimes you can still hear an echo
when you call someone
this comes from the microphone sound in
your phone it loops back into your
phone's earpiece
making you hear an echo of your voice
this loopback is actually
intentional but it can be annoying when
there's a time delay
the echo is caused by something called a
side tone
this lets you hear your own voice in
your phone speaker to make you
feel more comfortable otherwise the line
sounds like it isn't even active
but the side tone may be delayed
occasionally and even though phone
companies have tried to add echo
cancellation systems
it can malfunction if that happens you
can try this
if you're in a room with different types
of electronic signals
step outside then see if the echo stops
if your battery is low plug your phone
in to your charger and turn off any apps
you aren't using
ask the person if you can call them back
this will set up a new connection
and may clear up the echo echo echo
sorry just playing with you check your
settings and turn the echo cancellation
function off
and on to see if it gets fixed the idea
of
wireless power sounds like a dream come
true but current wireless technologies
aren't catching on
when wireless chargers first came out
you had to place your phone on a
charging mat
which was then plugged in with a wire
the mat would wirelessly transmit power
to your phone
if it was placed there when you lifted
your phone from the map
the charging would stop but when someone
thinks wireless
the first thing that comes to mind is
wi-fi which works everywhere in your
house
we don't need to put our phones on a
router to get internet access
and in terms of freedom to move around
charging cables are better
they're faster and more efficient at
powering up your phone
it can take less than two hours for a
phone to go from zero to one hundred
percent battery charge
on a wired charger but with a wireless
charger it can take more than three
hours
the time difference isn't that big but a
wireless charger also uses more
electricity
some of the power will be lost as excess
heat some of the latest phones let you
charge from a few feet away
but that means they're charging even
more slowly while wasting more
electricity
although there is one wireless charger
that can power up a phone to 48
in just one hour if you've had the same
phone for some time now
you might notice that it occasionally
gets hot while you're using it
most of the time this is normal but
there's a reason why it happens
inside your phone there's a processor
like the one you have in your computer
when your phone's processor is working
normally it generates heat
and it produces more heat when it works
harder desktops and laptops use
different hardware to cool themselves
down
but that equipment can often be chunky
and it definitely won't fit into your
phone
so manufacturers design the chips in a
way that prevents them from generating
excess heat
they generally work well unless you play
games for a long time
in some other cases the heat may be a
sign of problems with your battery
oh that reminds me you should avoid
buying an aftermarket battery
replacing batteries is expensive so some
people take the after-market route
lithium-ion batteries have protection
that prevents them from over charging
but this protection can fail in
counterfeit batteries
causing them to warm up swell or even
catch fire
sometimes people drop their phones from
buildings and nothing happens to them
but other times you might keep your
phone in your pocket all day
and when you take it out your screen is
cracked
according to the director of the mit
glass lab
yes there is such a place glass can cope
with a good squeeze or compression
that's why when a phone drops flat onto
the ground face down
it survives but it doesn't like tension
who does for phones manufacturers prefer
to use gorilla glass
the way it's manufactured makes it
resistant to being hit
as well as scratch resistant but it's
difficult to make the perfect kind of
unbreakable glass for
all situations if you drop your phone
face down on the concrete
sidewalk it'll be fine but if you drop
it on the table and it lands on its
edge well then you need a new screen
most companies have removed the home
button from their phones in the past few
years
to make room for bigger screens but
that's not the only reason why they did
so
even the best buttons stop working
eventually a home button is the only
moving part in some phones that can wear
down or break
this button used to be the weak point of
a phone in some cases
it could allow water to get in and
damage the insides
it took a few years to come up with
non-physical buttons that users could
still press and feel the click
but that feature didn't last very long
and companies soon removed the buttons
completely they made more room for the
screen
and made phone navigation easier it
often seems like your smartphone takes
longer to charge as it gets older
but apart from battery health charging
cables and adapters
there are a few other things that might
be slowing down your phone
playing games and watching videos on
your device while it's charging
might mean that you're using the battery
power faster than your phone
is building it up also your phone might
be overloaded with a bunch of apps
that are running in the background these
apps drain your battery
and so your phone charges very slowly
and
if your phone spends all day rattling
around in your bag
it can get covered in dust and other
particles some of this stuff can make
its way into the usb
port that stops your charger from
achieving a good connection
so a whole bunch of food particles can
make things
crummy